README.md, before:

# PassivBot.jl - Complete Standalone Project

[![Julia Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/julia-1.6+-blue.svg)](https://julialang.org)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Public%20Domain-green.svg)](LICENSE)

A high-performance cryptocurrency trading bot for Binance Futures, written in pure Julia. Complete port of the Python passivbot with 100% feature parity and significant performance improvements.

⚠️ **Use at your own risk** ⚠️

---

## 🚀 Features

- **Market Making Strategy** - Grid trading with EMA and volatility-based positioning
- **Hedge Mode** - Simultaneous long and short positions
- **High Performance** - Julia's native JIT compilation (no Numba needed)
- **Backtesting Engine** - Tick-level simulation with comprehensive metrics
- **Hyperparameter Optimization** - BlackBoxOptim.jl for parameter tuning
- **Telegram Integration** - Remote monitoring and control
- **Comprehensive Analysis** - Performance metrics, Sharpe ratio, VWR
- **Visualization** - Plots.jl for equity curves and position analysis

---

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## 🔧 Installation

### Prerequisites

- Julia 1.6 or higher
- Binance Futures account with API keys

### Install Dependencies

```bash
cd PassivBot.jl
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

This will install all required packages:
- HTTP.jl, WebSockets.jl - Networking
- JSON3.jl - JSON parsing
- DataFrames.jl, CSV.jl - Data handling
- Plots.jl - Visualization
- BlackBoxOptim.jl - Optimization
- And more...

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Configure API Keys

Copy the example file and add your credentials:

```bash
cp api-keys.json.example api-keys.json
# Edit api-keys.json with your API keys
```

### 2. Run a Backtest

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl configs/live/5x.json
```

### 3. Start Live Trading

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl binance_01 BTCUSDT configs/live/5x.json --restart
```

### 4. Run Optimization

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl -n 1000
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### API Keys (`api-keys.json`)

```json
{
    "binance_01": {
        "exchange": "binance",
        "key": "YOUR_API_KEY",
        "secret": "YOUR_API_SECRET",
        "telegram": {
            "enabled": true,
            "notify_entry_fill": false,
            "notify_close_fill": false,
            "token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN",
            "chat_id": "YOUR_CHAT_ID"
        }
    }
}
```

**Telegram Configuration:**
- `enabled`: Enable/disable Telegram bot (true/false)
- `notify_entry_fill`: Notify on entry order fills
- `notify_close_fill`: Notify on close order fills
- `token`: Get from [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) on Telegram
- `chat_id`: Get from [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot) on Telegram

**Telegram Commands:**
- `/help` - Show available commands
- `/status` - Show bot status
- `/balance` - Show account balance
- `/position` - Show current positions
- `/config` - Show configuration
- `/stop` - Stop bot gracefully
- `/pause` - Pause trading
- `/resume` - Resume trading

See [TELEGRAM_FIX.md](TELEGRAM_FIX.md) for detailed setup instructions.

### Live Trading Config (`configs/live/*.json`)

Example `5x.json`:
```json
{
    "config_name": "5x_general",
    "leverage": 5,
    "do_long": true,
    "do_shrt": false,
    "ema_span": 1000,
    "grid_spacing": 0.01,
    "min_markup": 0.005,
    ...
}
```

See `configs/live/` for more examples:
- `5x.json` - Conservative 5x leverage
- `lev10x.json` - Moderate 10x leverage
- `manual.json` - Manual trading template

### Backtest Config (`configs/backtest/default.json`)

```json
{
    "exchange": "binance",
    "symbol": "BTCUSDT",
    "starting_balance": 1000.0,
    "start_date": "2023-01-01",
    "end_date": "2023-12-31"
}
```

### Optimization Config (`configs/optimize/default.json`)

```json
{
    "iters": 10000,
    "metric": "average_daily_gain",
    "ranges": {
        "leverage": [2, 20],
        "grid_spacing": [0.0002, 0.1],
        ...
    }
}
```

---

## 📖 Usage

### Command Line Interface

#### Live Trading

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl <account> <symbol> <config> [options]

Options:
  --restart, -r          Auto-restart on failure
  --max-restarts N       Maximum restart attempts (default: 30)
  --restart-delay N      Delay between restarts in seconds (default: 30)

Examples:
  julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl binance_01 BTCUSDT configs/live/5x.json
  julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl binance_01 ETHUSDT configs/live/lev10x.json --restart
```

#### Backtesting

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl <live_config> [options]

Options:
  -b, --backtest-config  Backtest configuration file
  -p, --plot             Generate plots
  -o, --output           Output directory

Examples:
  julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl configs/live/5x.json
  julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl configs/live/lev10x.json -p
```

#### Optimization

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl [options]

Options:
  -b, --backtest-config  Backtest configuration
  -o, --optimize-config  Optimization configuration
  -n, --n-iterations     Number of iterations
  --start                Starting candidate config

Examples:
  julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl -n 1000
  julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl --start results/best_config.json
```

### Julia API

```julia
using PassivBot

# Create bot instance
config = JSON3.read(read("configs/live/5x.json", String), Dict{String,Any})
config["user"] = "binance_01"
config["symbol"] = "BTCUSDT"

bot = BinanceBot(config)

# Start trading
start_bot(bot)

# Or run backtest
fills, stats, finished = backtest(config, ticks, true)

# Analyze results
fdf, result = analyze_fills(fills, config, last_timestamp)
```

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
PassivBot.jl/
├── Project.toml              # Package dependencies
├── README.md                 # This file
├── api-keys.json.example     # API keys template
│
├── src/                      # Source code
│   ├── PassivBot.jl         # Main module
│   ├── Core.jl              # Bot logic (1,279 lines)
│   ├── Binance.jl           # API client (500+ lines)
│   ├── Jitted.jl            # Calculations (943 lines)
│   ├── Backtest.jl          # Backtesting (490 lines)
│   ├── Optimize.jl          # Optimization (615 lines)
│   ├── Analysis.jl          # Metrics (380 lines)
│   ├── Plotting.jl          # Visualization (330 lines)
│   ├── Downloader.jl        # Data fetching (130 lines)
│   ├── TelegramBot.jl       # Telegram interface (200 lines)
│   └── Utils.jl             # Utilities (200 lines)
│
├── scripts/                  # Entry point scripts
│   ├── start_bot.jl         # Live trading
│   ├── backtest.jl          # Backtesting
│   └── optimize.jl          # Optimization
│
├── configs/                  # Configuration files
│   ├── live/                # Live trading configs
│   │   ├── 5x.json
│   │   ├── lev10x.json
│   │   └── manual.json
│   ├── backtest/            # Backtest configs
│   │   └── default.json
│   └── optimize/            # Optimization configs
│       └── default.json
│
├── test/                     # Test suite
│   └── integration_test.jl  # Integration tests
│
├── data/                     # Historical data (gitignored)
├── logs/                     # Runtime logs (gitignored)
├── plots/                    # Generated plots (gitignored)
├── backtest_results/         # Backtest outputs
└── optimize_results/         # Optimization outputs
```

---

## 📚 Documentation

- **[QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md)** - Command reference
- **[INTEGRATION_STATUS.md](INTEGRATION_STATUS.md)** - Detailed status
- **[COMPLETION_SUMMARY.md](COMPLETION_SUMMARY.md)** - Project summary
- **[FINAL_PROJECT_SUMMARY.md](FINAL_PROJECT_SUMMARY.md)** - Complete report

### Key Concepts

#### Grid Trading
The bot places limit orders in a grid above and below the current price, profiting from price oscillations.

#### EMA-based Entry
Entry prices are based on Exponential Moving Average (EMA) with configurable spread.

#### Position Sizing
Dynamic position sizing based on:
- Volatility
- Current position size
- Available margin
- Grid coefficients

#### Risk Management
- Configurable leverage
- Position size limits
- Stop loss (optional)
- Liquidation distance monitoring

---

## 🎯 Performance

### Advantages over Python Version

- **5-10x faster backtesting** - Julia's JIT compilation
- **3-5x faster optimization** - Native performance
- **30-50% less memory** - Efficient data structures
- **No Numba needed** - Fast by default
- **Better async** - Native Task-based concurrency

### Benchmarks

*(Pending real-world testing)*

Expected performance on typical hardware:
- Backtest 1 year of data: ~30 seconds
- Optimization 1000 iterations: ~2 hours
- Live trading latency: <10ms

---

## 🧪 Testing

### Run Integration Tests

```bash
julia --project=. test/integration_test.jl
```

### Test Coverage

- ✅ Package loading
- ✅ Utility functions
- ✅ Calculation functions
- ✅ Configuration management
- ✅ Analysis functions
- ✅ Module exports
- ⚠️ Backtest (needs real data)
- ⚠️ Live trading (needs testnet)

---

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a complete port of the Python passivbot. Contributions welcome!

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone <repository>
cd PassivBot.jl
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

### Code Style

- Follow Julia conventions
- Use 4-space indentation
- Add docstrings to public functions
- Run tests before committing

---

## 📄 License

Released freely without conditions. Use at your own risk.

Anybody may copy, distribute, modify, use or misuse for commercial,
non-commercial, educational or non-educational purposes, censor,
claim as one's own or otherwise do whatever without permission from anybody.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Original Python Version**: [passivbot](https://github.com/enarjord/passivbot) by enarjord
- **Julia Port**: PassivBot.jl team

---

## 📞 Support

- **Issues**: Open an issue on GitHub
- **Discussions**: Use GitHub Discussions
- **Discord**: (TBD)
- **Telegram**: (TBD)

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This software is for educational purposes only. Trading cryptocurrencies
carries significant risk. Never trade with money you cannot afford to lose.

The authors and contributors are not responsible for any financial losses
incurred through the use of this software.

---

**Made with ❤️ and Julia**

Commit message:

test: add downloader tests and fix module exports
- Add test/downloader_test.jl with comprehensive tests
- Fix Jitted function re-exports in PassivBot.jl
- Update integration_test.jl imports
- All tests pass

README.md, after:

# PassivBot.jl - Complete Standalone Project

[![Julia Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/julia-1.6+-blue.svg)](https://julialang.org)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Public%20Domain-green.svg)](LICENSE)

A high-performance cryptocurrency trading bot for Binance Futures, written in pure Julia. Complete port of the Python passivbot with 100% feature parity and significant performance improvements.

> **📌 Note**: This project is converted from the Python version at `/home/czc/projects/working/stock/passivbot3.5.6`. Some functionality may be incomplete. If you need to add or fix features, please refer to the Python version as reference.

⚠️ **Use at your own risk** ⚠️

---

## 🚀 Features

- **Market Making Strategy** - Grid trading with EMA and volatility-based positioning
- **Hedge Mode** - Simultaneous long and short positions
- **High Performance** - Julia's native JIT compilation (no Numba needed)
- **Backtesting Engine** - Tick-level simulation with comprehensive metrics
- **Hyperparameter Optimization** - BlackBoxOptim.jl for parameter tuning
- **Telegram Integration** - Remote monitoring and control
- **Comprehensive Analysis** - Performance metrics, Sharpe ratio, VWR
- **Visualization** - Plots.jl for equity curves and position analysis

---

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## 🔧 Installation

### Prerequisites

- Julia 1.6 or higher
- Binance Futures account with API keys

### Install Dependencies

```bash
cd PassivBot.jl
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

This will install all required packages:
- HTTP.jl, WebSockets.jl - Networking
- JSON3.jl - JSON parsing
- DataFrames.jl, CSV.jl - Data handling
- Plots.jl - Visualization
- BlackBoxOptim.jl - Optimization
- And more...

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Configure API Keys

Copy the example file and add your credentials:

```bash
cp api-keys.json.example api-keys.json
# Edit api-keys.json with your API keys
```

### 2. Run a Backtest

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl configs/live/5x.json
```

### 3. Start Live Trading

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl binance_01 BTCUSDT configs/live/5x.json --restart
```

### 4. Run Optimization

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl -n 1000
```

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

### API Keys (`api-keys.json`)

```json
{
    "binance_01": {
        "exchange": "binance",
        "key": "YOUR_API_KEY",
        "secret": "YOUR_API_SECRET",
        "telegram": {
            "enabled": true,
            "notify_entry_fill": false,
            "notify_close_fill": false,
            "token": "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN",
            "chat_id": "YOUR_CHAT_ID"
        }
    }
}
```

**Telegram Configuration:**
- `enabled`: Enable/disable Telegram bot (true/false)
- `notify_entry_fill`: Notify on entry order fills
- `notify_close_fill`: Notify on close order fills
- `token`: Get from [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) on Telegram
- `chat_id`: Get from [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot) on Telegram

**Telegram Commands:**
- `/help` - Show available commands
- `/status` - Show bot status
- `/balance` - Show account balance
- `/position` - Show current positions
- `/config` - Show configuration
- `/stop` - Stop bot gracefully
- `/pause` - Pause trading
- `/resume` - Resume trading

See [TELEGRAM_FIX.md](TELEGRAM_FIX.md) for detailed setup instructions.

### Live Trading Config (`configs/live/*.json`)

Example `5x.json`:
```json
{
    "config_name": "5x_general",
    "leverage": 5,
    "do_long": true,
    "do_shrt": false,
    "ema_span": 1000,
    "grid_spacing": 0.01,
    "min_markup": 0.005,
    ...
}
```

See `configs/live/` for more examples:
- `5x.json` - Conservative 5x leverage
- `lev10x.json` - Moderate 10x leverage
- `manual.json` - Manual trading template

### Backtest Config (`configs/backtest/default.json`)

```json
{
    "exchange": "binance",
    "symbol": "BTCUSDT",
    "starting_balance": 1000.0,
    "start_date": "2023-01-01",
    "end_date": "2023-12-31"
}
```

### Optimization Config (`configs/optimize/default.json`)

```json
{
    "iters": 10000,
    "metric": "average_daily_gain",
    "ranges": {
        "leverage": [2, 20],
        "grid_spacing": [0.0002, 0.1],
        ...
    }
}
```

---

## 📖 Usage

### Command Line Interface

#### Live Trading

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl <account> <symbol> <config> [options]

Options:
  --restart, -r          Auto-restart on failure
  --max-restarts N       Maximum restart attempts (default: 30)
  --restart-delay N      Delay between restarts in seconds (default: 30)

Examples:
  julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl binance_01 BTCUSDT configs/live/5x.json
  julia --project=. scripts/start_bot.jl binance_01 ETHUSDT configs/live/lev10x.json --restart
```

#### Backtesting

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl <live_config> [options]

Options:
  -b, --backtest-config  Backtest configuration file
  -p, --plot             Generate plots
  -o, --output           Output directory

Examples:
  julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl configs/live/5x.json
  julia --project=. scripts/backtest.jl configs/live/lev10x.json -p
```

#### Optimization

```bash
julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl [options]

Options:
  -b, --backtest-config  Backtest configuration
  -o, --optimize-config  Optimization configuration
  -n, --n-iterations     Number of iterations
  --start                Starting candidate config

Examples:
  julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl -n 1000
  julia --project=. scripts/optimize.jl --start results/best_config.json
```

### Julia API

```julia
using PassivBot

# Create bot instance
config = JSON3.read(read("configs/live/5x.json", String), Dict{String,Any})
config["user"] = "binance_01"
config["symbol"] = "BTCUSDT"

bot = BinanceBot(config)

# Start trading
start_bot(bot)

# Or run backtest
fills, stats, finished = backtest(config, ticks, true)

# Analyze results
fdf, result = analyze_fills(fills, config, last_timestamp)
```

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
PassivBot.jl/
├── Project.toml              # Package dependencies
├── README.md                 # This file
├── api-keys.json.example     # API keys template
│
├── src/                      # Source code
│   ├── PassivBot.jl         # Main module
│   ├── Core.jl              # Bot logic (1,279 lines)
│   ├── Binance.jl           # API client (500+ lines)
│   ├── Jitted.jl            # Calculations (943 lines)
│   ├── Backtest.jl          # Backtesting (490 lines)
│   ├── Optimize.jl          # Optimization (615 lines)
│   ├── Analysis.jl          # Metrics (380 lines)
│   ├── Plotting.jl          # Visualization (330 lines)
│   ├── Downloader.jl        # Data fetching (130 lines)
│   ├── TelegramBot.jl       # Telegram interface (200 lines)
│   └── Utils.jl             # Utilities (200 lines)
│
├── scripts/                  # Entry point scripts
│   ├── start_bot.jl         # Live trading
│   ├── backtest.jl          # Backtesting
│   └── optimize.jl          # Optimization
│
├── configs/                  # Configuration files
│   ├── live/                # Live trading configs
│   │   ├── 5x.json
│   │   ├── lev10x.json
│   │   └── manual.json
│   ├── backtest/            # Backtest configs
│   │   └── default.json
│   └── optimize/            # Optimization configs
│       └── default.json
│
├── test/                     # Test suite
│   └── integration_test.jl  # Integration tests
│
├── data/                     # Historical data (gitignored)
├── logs/                     # Runtime logs (gitignored)
├── plots/                    # Generated plots (gitignored)
├── backtest_results/         # Backtest outputs
└── optimize_results/         # Optimization outputs
```

---

## 📚 Documentation

- **[QUICK_REFERENCE.md](QUICK_REFERENCE.md)** - Command reference
- **[INTEGRATION_STATUS.md](INTEGRATION_STATUS.md)** - Detailed status
- **[COMPLETION_SUMMARY.md](COMPLETION_SUMMARY.md)** - Project summary
- **[FINAL_PROJECT_SUMMARY.md](FINAL_PROJECT_SUMMARY.md)** - Complete report

### Key Concepts

#### Grid Trading
The bot places limit orders in a grid above and below the current price, profiting from price oscillations.

#### EMA-based Entry
Entry prices are based on Exponential Moving Average (EMA) with configurable spread.

#### Position Sizing
Dynamic position sizing based on:
- Volatility
- Current position size
- Available margin
- Grid coefficients

#### Risk Management
- Configurable leverage
- Position size limits
- Stop loss (optional)
- Liquidation distance monitoring

---

## 🎯 Performance

### Advantages over Python Version

- **5-10x faster backtesting** - Julia's JIT compilation
- **3-5x faster optimization** - Native performance
- **30-50% less memory** - Efficient data structures
- **No Numba needed** - Fast by default
- **Better async** - Native Task-based concurrency

### Benchmarks

*(Pending real-world testing)*

Expected performance on typical hardware:
- Backtest 1 year of data: ~30 seconds
- Optimization 1000 iterations: ~2 hours
- Live trading latency: <10ms

---

## 🧪 Testing

### Run Integration Tests

```bash
julia --project=. test/integration_test.jl
```

### Test Coverage

- ✅ Package loading
- ✅ Utility functions
- ✅ Calculation functions
- ✅ Configuration management
- ✅ Analysis functions
- ✅ Module exports
- ⚠️ Backtest (needs real data)
- ⚠️ Live trading (needs testnet)

---

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a complete port of the Python passivbot. Contributions welcome!

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone <repository>
cd PassivBot.jl
julia --project=. -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
```

### Code Style

- Follow Julia conventions
- Use 4-space indentation
- Add docstrings to public functions
- Run tests before committing

---

## 📄 License

Released freely without conditions. Use at your own risk.

Anybody may copy, distribute, modify, use or misuse for commercial,
non-commercial, educational or non-educational purposes, censor,
claim as one's own or otherwise do whatever without permission from anybody.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Original Python Version**: [passivbot](https://github.com/enarjord/passivbot) by enarjord
- **Julia Port**: PassivBot.jl team

---

## 📞 Support

- **Issues**: Open an issue on GitHub
- **Discussions**: Use GitHub Discussions
- **Discord**: (TBD)
- **Telegram**: (TBD)

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This software is for educational purposes only. Trading cryptocurrencies
carries significant risk. Never trade with money you cannot afford to lose.

The authors and contributors are not responsible for any financial losses
incurred through the use of this software.

---

**Made with ❤️ and Julia**
